content/about_me/index.md, before:

---
title: "About Me"
date: 2022-08-20T13:11:18-04:00
draft: false
comment: false
---

{{< image src="./header-macbook.jpg" linked="false" title="" width="50%" title="Macbook on a Wooden Desk" caption="Photo by [Iewek Gnos](https://unsplash.com/@imkirk?utm_source=unsplash&utm_medium=referral&utm_content=creditCopyText) on [Unsplash](https://unsplash.com/s/photos/study-table?utm_source=unsplash&utm_medium=referral&utm_content=creditCopyText)" >}}

## Introduction

I am Ali Sajid Imami, a bioinformatics scientist and software engineer of Pakistani :pakistan: origin based in the US :us:.
I hold an M.S. in Bioinformatics from the University of Toledo and an MB BS from Nishtar Medical University.
I am currently pursuing a Ph.D. in Bioinformatics at the University of Toledo, focusing on the molecular pathogenesis of Schizophrenia.

I am a self-taught programmer and a self-proclaimed data scientist. I have a keen interest in data science, machine learning, and artificial intelligence. I am currently PhD Candidate and a graduate research assistant in the [Cognitive Disorders Research Lab](https://cdrl-ut.org) at the University of Toledo.

I am passionate about solving complicated problems using the simplest and intuitive methods. I also devote more time than I should teaching people all the tools I use, including, but not limited to, R, Rust, Python, SQL, Git(Hub), and Bayesian Statistics.

I am a big fan of the [R programming language](https://www.r-project.org/), and I use it for almost all of my data analysis and visualization needs. I also use Python for data analysis and visualization, and I am currently learning Rust, where I am building a suite of CLI tools to query databases I work with every day.

- My Research Interests include:
  - Computational Modeling of Biological Systems
  - Kinase Network Inference
  - Drug Repurposing and Drug Discovery
  - Genomics, Proteomics, and Kinomics
  - Multi-omics Integration
- My Personal Interests include:
  - Reading
  - Building Electronics projects
  - Raspberry Pis, Arduinos and the like
  - Baking

## Toolbox :hammer_and_wrench:

### Languages

{{< devicon logo="python" wordmark="true" >}}

{{< devicon logo="ruby" wordmark="true" >}}

{{< devicon logo="r" >}}

{{< devicon logo="css3" wordmark="true" alt="CSS3" >}}

{{< devicon logo="typescript" >}}

{{< devicon logo="javascript" >}}

{{< devicon logo="html5" wordmark="true" alt="HTML5" >}}

{{< devicon logo="go" wordmark="true" >}}

{{< devicon logo="nodejs" wordmark="true" alt="NodeJS" >}}

{{< devicon logo="perl" >}}

{{< devicon logo="bash" >}}

### Tools

#### IDEs

{{< devicon logo="rstudio" alt="RStudio" >}}

{{< devicon logo="pycharm" alt="PyCharm" >}}

{{< devicon logo="vscode" alt="Visual Studio Code" >}}

#### Databases

{{< devicon logo="mysql" wordmark="true" >}}

{{< devicon logo="postgresql" wordmark="true" >}}

#### Cloud Providers and Cloud Tech

{{< devicon logo="amazonwebservices" alt="Amazon Web Services">}}

{{< devicon logo="googlecloud" alt="Google Cloud Platform" >}}

{{< devicon logo="docker" >}}

{{< devicon logo="kubernetes" flavor="plain" >}}

{{< devicon logo="terraform" wordmark="true" >}}

{{< devicon logo="firebase" flavor="plain" wordmark="true" >}}

#### Operating Systems

{{< devicon logo="linux" >}}

{{< devicon logo="windows8" >}}

{{< devicon logo="apple" >}}

{{< devicon logo="ubuntu" flavor="plain">}}

{{< devicon logo="debian" >}}

{{< devicon logo="centos" >}}

{{< devicon logo="fedora" >}}

{{< devicon logo="android" >}}

#### Version Control

{{< devicon logo="git" >}}

{{< devicon logo="github" alt="GitHub" >}}

#### Frameworks

{{< devicon logo="flask" >}}

{{< devicon logo="svelte" >}}

{{< devicon logo="rails" wordmark="true" >}}

## Projects :label:

- [Kinase INteraction NETwork (KINNET)](https://github.com/CogDisResLab/KINNET)

- [drugfindR](https://github.com/CogDisResLab/drugfindR)

- [KinaseTauScore](https://github.com/CogDisResLab/KinaseTauScore)

- [BioPathNet](https://github.com/CogDisResLab/BioPathNet)

- [Kaleidoscope](https://github.com/CogDisResLab/Kaleidoscope)

- [Kinome Random Sampling Analyzer (KRSA)](https://github.com/CogDisResLab/KRSA)

- [creedenzymatic](https://github.com/CogDisResLab/creedenzymatic)

- [IPTMNet Client](https://github.com/AliSajid/iptmnet_client)

## Publications :books:

- [The active kinome: The modern view of how active protein kinase networks fit in biological research - Current Opinion in Pharmacology](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.coph.2021.11.007)

- [Strategies to identify candidate repurposable drugs: COVID-19 treatment as a case example - Translational Psychiatry](https://doi.org/10.1038/s41398-021-01724-w)

- [Fluoxetine as an Anti-Inflammatory Therapy in SARS-CoV-2 Infection - Protocol v1.1 - protocols.io](https://dx.doi.org/10.17504/protocols.io.bscjnaun)

- [Signature-based approaches for informed drug repurposing: targeting CNS disorders - Neuropsychopharmacology](https://doi.org/10.1038/s41386-020-0752-6)

- [Emerging Kinase Therapeutic Targets in Pancreatic Ductal Adenocarcinoma and Pancreatic Cancer Desmoplasia - International Journal of Molecular Sciences](https://doi.org/10.3390/ijms21228823)

- [Kinome Array Profiling of Patient-Derived Pancreatic Ductal Adenocarcinoma Identifies Differentially Active Protein Tyrosine Kinases - International Journal of Molecular Sciences](https://doi.org/10.3390/ijms21228679)

- [Oxytocin's Anti-inflammatory and Pro-immune functions in COVID-19: A Transcriptomic Signature Based Approach - Physiological Genomics](https://doi.org/10.1152/physiolgenomics.00095.2020)

- [Identification of new drug treatments to combat COVID19: A signature-based approach using iLINCS - [Research Square]](https://doi.org/10.21203/rs.3.rs-25643/v1)

- [Integrative Omics for Informed Drug Repurposing: Targeting CNS Disorders - [bioRxiv]](https://doi.org/10.1101/2020.04.24.060392)

Commit message:

fix: add descriptions and summaries to every post
Signed-off-by: Ali Sajid Imami <395482+AliSajid@users.noreply.github.com>

content/about_me/index.md, after:

---
title: "About Me"
date: 2022-08-20T13:11:18-04:00
summary: "Bioinformatics scientist Ali Sajid Imami's personal website, featuring his research, projects, and skills in computational biology and data science."
draft: false
comment: false
---

{{< image src="./header-macbook.jpg" linked="false" title="" width="50%" title="Macbook on a Wooden Desk" caption="Photo by [Iewek Gnos](https://unsplash.com/@imkirk?utm_source=unsplash&utm_medium=referral&utm_content=creditCopyText) on [Unsplash](https://unsplash.com/s/photos/study-table?utm_source=unsplash&utm_medium=referral&utm_content=creditCopyText)" >}}

## Introduction

I am Ali Sajid Imami, a bioinformatics scientist and software engineer of Pakistani :pakistan: origin based in the US :us:.
I hold an M.S. in Bioinformatics from the University of Toledo and an MB BS from Nishtar Medical University.
I am currently pursuing a Ph.D. in Bioinformatics at the University of Toledo, focusing on the molecular pathogenesis of Schizophrenia.

I am a self-taught programmer and a self-proclaimed data scientist. I have a keen interest in data science, machine learning, and artificial intelligence. I am currently PhD Candidate and a graduate research assistant in the [Cognitive Disorders Research Lab](https://cdrl-ut.org) at the University of Toledo.

I am passionate about solving complicated problems using the simplest and intuitive methods. I also devote more time than I should teaching people all the tools I use, including, but not limited to, R, Rust, Python, SQL, Git(Hub), and Bayesian Statistics.

I am a big fan of the [R programming language](https://www.r-project.org/), and I use it for almost all of my data analysis and visualization needs. I also use Python for data analysis and visualization, and I am currently learning Rust, where I am building a suite of CLI tools to query databases I work with every day.

- My Research Interests include:
  - Computational Modeling of Biological Systems
  - Kinase Network Inference
  - Drug Repurposing and Drug Discovery
  - Genomics, Proteomics, and Kinomics
  - Multi-omics Integration
- My Personal Interests include:
  - Reading
  - Building Electronics projects
  - Raspberry Pis, Arduinos and the like
  - Baking

## Toolbox :hammer_and_wrench:

### Languages

{{< devicon logo="python" wordmark="true" >}}

{{< devicon logo="ruby" wordmark="true" >}}

{{< devicon logo="r" >}}

{{< devicon logo="css3" wordmark="true" alt="CSS3" >}}

{{< devicon logo="typescript" >}}

{{< devicon logo="javascript" >}}

{{< devicon logo="html5" wordmark="true" alt="HTML5" >}}

{{< devicon logo="go" wordmark="true" >}}

{{< devicon logo="nodejs" wordmark="true" alt="NodeJS" >}}

{{< devicon logo="perl" >}}

{{< devicon logo="bash" >}}

### Tools

#### IDEs

{{< devicon logo="rstudio" alt="RStudio" >}}

{{< devicon logo="pycharm" alt="PyCharm" >}}

{{< devicon logo="vscode" alt="Visual Studio Code" >}}

#### Databases

{{< devicon logo="mysql" wordmark="true" >}}

{{< devicon logo="postgresql" wordmark="true" >}}

#### Cloud Providers and Cloud Tech

{{< devicon logo="amazonwebservices" alt="Amazon Web Services">}}

{{< devicon logo="googlecloud" alt="Google Cloud Platform" >}}

{{< devicon logo="docker" >}}

{{< devicon logo="kubernetes" flavor="plain" >}}

{{< devicon logo="terraform" wordmark="true" >}}

{{< devicon logo="firebase" flavor="plain" wordmark="true" >}}

#### Operating Systems

{{< devicon logo="linux" >}}

{{< devicon logo="windows8" >}}

{{< devicon logo="apple" >}}

{{< devicon logo="ubuntu" flavor="plain">}}

{{< devicon logo="debian" >}}

{{< devicon logo="centos" >}}

{{< devicon logo="fedora" >}}

{{< devicon logo="android" >}}

#### Version Control

{{< devicon logo="git" >}}

{{< devicon logo="github" alt="GitHub" >}}

#### Frameworks

{{< devicon logo="flask" >}}

{{< devicon logo="svelte" >}}

{{< devicon logo="rails" wordmark="true" >}}

## Projects :label:

- [Kinase INteraction NETwork (KINNET)](https://github.com/CogDisResLab/KINNET)

- [drugfindR](https://github.com/CogDisResLab/drugfindR)

- [KinaseTauScore](https://github.com/CogDisResLab/KinaseTauScore)

- [BioPathNet](https://github.com/CogDisResLab/BioPathNet)

- [Kaleidoscope](https://github.com/CogDisResLab/Kaleidoscope)

- [Kinome Random Sampling Analyzer (KRSA)](https://github.com/CogDisResLab/KRSA)

- [creedenzymatic](https://github.com/CogDisResLab/creedenzymatic)

- [IPTMNet Client](https://github.com/AliSajid/iptmnet_client)

## Publications :books:

- [The active kinome: The modern view of how active protein kinase networks fit in biological research - Current Opinion in Pharmacology](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.coph.2021.11.007)

- [Strategies to identify candidate repurposable drugs: COVID-19 treatment as a case example - Translational Psychiatry](https://doi.org/10.1038/s41398-021-01724-w)

- [Fluoxetine as an Anti-Inflammatory Therapy in SARS-CoV-2 Infection - Protocol v1.1 - protocols.io](https://dx.doi.org/10.17504/protocols.io.bscjnaun)

- [Signature-based approaches for informed drug repurposing: targeting CNS disorders - Neuropsychopharmacology](https://doi.org/10.1038/s41386-020-0752-6)

- [Emerging Kinase Therapeutic Targets in Pancreatic Ductal Adenocarcinoma and Pancreatic Cancer Desmoplasia - International Journal of Molecular Sciences](https://doi.org/10.3390/ijms21228823)

- [Kinome Array Profiling of Patient-Derived Pancreatic Ductal Adenocarcinoma Identifies Differentially Active Protein Tyrosine Kinases - International Journal of Molecular Sciences](https://doi.org/10.3390/ijms21228679)

- [Oxytocin's Anti-inflammatory and Pro-immune functions in COVID-19: A Transcriptomic Signature Based Approach - Physiological Genomics](https://doi.org/10.1152/physiolgenomics.00095.2020)

- [Identification of new drug treatments to combat COVID19: A signature-based approach using iLINCS - [Research Square]](https://doi.org/10.21203/rs.3.rs-25643/v1)

- [Integrative Omics for Informed Drug Repurposing: Targeting CNS Disorders - [bioRxiv]](https://doi.org/10.1101/2020.04.24.060392)
